All right, let's debug it together.
So the issue that we are seeing
was on the sign up page,
when a user attempts to fill
out the form to sign up,
It doesn't sign them up,
doesn't do anything.
And we get this error in our console,
form.submit is not a function
at analytics.js line 25.
And the rub here is that
analytics.js is a vendor script.
So we are unable to
actually change this file.
But we can still see if we can
figure out what the problem is.
So it's line 25 that's blowing up.
So let's attach a break
point here on line 25.
I'm gonna go ahead and
just submit this form again, and
we should break here just fine.
And we can see what's going on in our
scope and what calls are happening.
It looks like this is something entirely
happening inside of analytics.js.
If we look at the call stack, at no point
here is any of my code really involved.
It's analytics.js called by analytics.js,
called by analytics.js,
called by analytics.js.
The specific area that we're trying
to solve is that form.submit is not
a function.
But form.submit is usually a function.
It's usually how you go about submitting
a form, a form object from JavaScript.
So let's see what is form.submit.
So if we just mouse over form,
we see a handy pop up that
shows us here's what form is.
It looks like it is the HTML
form element that we expect.
It's got a bunch of stuff, it's supposed
to post against this action and
have a bunch of stuff on it.
What is form.submit?
form.submit is a button.
It's got a bunch of classes on it, it's
a button, button large, button orange.
It's highlighted on the left-hand side,
so it is that button,
it is the start free trial button.
Why would form.submit being input and
not a function?
Normally, if we have a form,
it's a instance of HTMLFormElement.
And all instances of HTMLFormElement
should come up with a prototype
where they have a submit function.
So that should be what it is, But
here at our broken code,
submit is the button.
Now, here is an override, a tricky piece
of override behavior that a form can do in
the DOM, is that form controls,
the names of form controls within
a form will override other behavior.
So for example,
form.submit will be an input
if there is a field with
the name of submit in the form.
form.action will be an input if there
is a field called action in the form.
form.target will be a different thing
if there is an input called target.
Interacting with the properties
of form is not a safe activity,
if you don't control the form itself,
which they do not.
This was a mistake in analytics.js.
They should not have called form.submit,
because obviously we have a form
here where submit is not a function.
Fortunately, I can't fix their code for
them.
So how do we fix this?
Well, could try just not
naming our input submit.
So the field in question is on
signup.html where we have this form.
This form has a tagline join
millions of people ranting online.
We ask for their name as the value Name.
We ask for their email as the value Email.
And then, we have a button down
here with the name of submit.
Why does it have the name of submit?
I don't know,
not really needed, I suppose.
If we remove that attribute and
save it, and reload our page.
We'll leave the break point here just so
we can check what this happens.
test, test@domain.com
Now, when we hit our breakpoint,
form it's still our form,
but submit is now the function.
Now, this is a little bit of trickery.
But anytime you're interacting with
a page that you don't control,
there's a lot of base
level HTML elements that
can have overriding behavior
in hostile environments.
So if we were, hypothetically,
going to try and
fix this for them,
how can we go about doing it?
Rather than interacting with the submit
function directly on the form instance,
we can interact with it on the prototype.
So we could do
HTMLFormElement.prototype.submit.call(fo-
rm); What does that do?
It interacts with the root object
that all forms inherit off from and
call the submit function on it.
But when we call the submit function,
we specify what the value of this will
be by invoking it with the call method.
And say call form.submit
using this as the form.
And this way we can take a back run
around the form control override behavior
that we are running into.
So if we were to back this out,
I didn't ask you to make this change,
I'm just playing.
If we were to actually make this change,
With,
The name submit still existing on
the page, This would actually still work.
That's how analytics.js should
have implemented their code.
This was the third-party bug.
And there's a couple of interesting things
to think about with third-party bucks.
I bet you were all using a third
party on your applications today.
You're pulling in some code from
a source that you don't control.
You're probably doing it with like a CDN.
Like you might be pulling
in jQuery from jQuery CDN.
Or you might be pulling in stripe for
a payment provider.
Or you might be pulling in Twitter, or
Facebook, or Google, or whatever for
various other reasons
provide stuff on your page.
But whenever you pull in a third party
a piece of JavaScript from a source you
don't control,
you're introducing risk onto your page.
You're giving another team, or
another group, or another company,
the ability to make changes on
your page without you knowing it.
jQuery could push a change to
their CDN anytime they want and
break millions and millions of pages.
They don't, but they could.
Stripe could push
a change to their API and
steal credit card numbers from everybody.
You'll probably think their business,
but they can do it.
We're probably using third party scripts
from a lot of less reputable places.
And so as you're adding third
party scripts to your page,
make sure you understand the risk
that you are introducing and
the ability for
other people to make changes.
How can you get around it?
Many vendors will allow you to take copies
of their scripts and host them locally.
Pull them in through NPM, pull them off
of their CDNs and put them on your own.
It's still their code that they wrote,
but you get a control when it changes.
So some concepts we talked about here,
this external risk factor
of third party JavaScript.
And specifically,
this bug is an inconsistency pattern
that is pretty pervasive across the DOM.
Specifically happens a lot in form where
form inputs can override all kinds of
other expected behavior.
What if you couldn't set the ID on
form because there was an input named
ID inside of that form,
which is not all that uncommon.